Google Cloud Developer's Cheat Sheet
https://googlecloudcheatsheet.withgoogle.com/

Cloud Storage

BigQuery - column based storage. It's optimized to be db for reads - > reporting.
         - serverless


Dataproc - is a fully managed service for batch processing, querying, streaming, and Machine Learning.(Hadoop workloads). 
HDFS, the Hadoop Distributed File System, stored the data on the machines in the cluster and MapReduce provided distributed processing of the data.
Apache Spark is an open source software project that provides a high performance analytics engine for processing batch and streaming data.


Dataflow - is a fully managed, serverless data processing service based on Apache Beam that supports both batch and streaming data processing pipelines.



Cloud SQL 
It is records based storage. (Meaning the entire record must be open on disk). 
It's optimized to be db for transactions or writes.

Pub/Sub

Cloud Data Fusion is a fully-managed, cloud-native, enterprise data integration service for quickly building and managing data pipelines.

BI Engine is a fast, in-memory analysis service that is built directly into BigQuery.


Cloud Monitoring - tracks spending of all the different resources and contains actual query job information to see granular level details about which queries were executed and by who.

Cloud Data Catalogue - makes all the metadata about your datasets available to search for your users

Data loss prevention API

Cloud Composer (Airflow)

Data Catalog is a fully managed and highly scalable data discovery and metadata management service.

Batch Data Pipelines
EL = Extract and Load, used in when data is clean and correct. (Log files in Cloud Storage, Cloud Storage loads to BQ - >REST API Call). 
ELT = Extract, Load and Transform, used when you do not know what transformations are needed. 
ETL ? 

Issues                          Solution
Latency, throughput             Dataflow, BigTable
Reusing Spark pipelines         Dataproc
Need to visual build pipeline   Cloud Data Fusion







Cloud Shell 
https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud
gcloud auth list
list the active account name with this command
